Docs: edits to copy and modify vignettes (#1098)
cynkra/dm: vignettes/howto-dm-rows.Rmd

This tutorial introduces the methods {dm} provides for modifying the data in the tables of a relational model.
There are 5 methods:

> * [`dm_rows_insert()`](#insert) - adds new rows

Reviewer: `dm_rows_append()`

Author: Should all instances of `dm_rows_insert()` be replaced by `dm_rows_append()`? 
Or should the vignette mention both of these options?

Reviewer: We have both, but `dm_rows_insert()` seems to be much less useful than `dm_rows_append()` .

Reviewer: They are different, though -- `dm_rows_insert()` will ditch duplicates or give an error, in some cases this is what we want. We can take this on in a separate PR though.

## Introduction {#intro}

This tutorial introduces the methods {dm} provides for modifying the data in the tables of a relational model.
There are 5 methods:

* [`dm_rows_insert()`](#insert) - adds new rows
* [`dm_rows_update()`](#update) - changes values in rows
* [`dm_rows_patch()`](#patch) - fills in missing values
* [`dm_rows_upsert()`](#upsert) - adds new rows or changes values if pre-existing
* [`dm_rows_delete()`](#delete) - deletes rows

## The dm_rows_* process

All six methods take the same arguments and using them follows the same process:

> 1. Create a temporary *changeset dm* object that defines the intended changes on the RDBMS <!-- TODO The technical term "changeset" needs to be explained here -->

Reviewer 2: is there an issue for this TODO?

Author: Done!
https://github.com/cynkra/dm/issues/1141

Reviewer 2: Thank you!

All six methods take the same arguments and using them follows the same process:

1. Create a temporary *changeset dm* object that defines the intended changes on the RDBMS <!-- The technical term "changeset" needs to be explained here -->
1. If desired, simulate changes with `in_place = FALSE` to double-check
1. Apply changes with `in_place = TRUE`.

> <!-- TODO: the following explanation is difficult to follow in prose, 

Author: Done!

https://github.com/cynkra/dm/issues/1111

Note that `in_place = FALSE` is the default: you must opt in to actually change data on the database.

Each method has its own requirements in order to maintain database consistency.
These involve constraints on primary key values that uniquely identify rows.

| Method | Requirements |
|--------|--------------|

> | `dm_rows_insert()` | Primary keys must be present for all tables.|
> | `dm_rows_append()` | Primary keys must differ from existing records.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `dm_rows_insert()` | Records with existing primary keys are silently ignored (via `dplyr::rows_insert(conflict = "ignore")`). |
| `dm_rows_append()` | All records are inserted, the underlying database might check for uniqueness of primary keys (and fail the operation) if a constraint is set. |
```

| `dm_rows_update()` | Primary keys must match for all records to be updated.|
| `dm_rows_patch()` | Updates missing values in existing records. Primary keys must match for all records to be patched.|
| `dm_rows_upsert()` | Updates existing records and adds new records, based on the primary key.|
| `dm_rows_delete()` | Removes matching records based on the primary key. Primary keys must match for all records to be deleted.|

To ensure the integrity of all relations during the process, all methods automatically determine the correct processing order for the tables involved.
For operations that create records, parent tables (which hold primary keys) are processed before child tables (which hold foreign keys).
For `dm_rows_delete()`, child tables are processed before their parent tables.
For more details on this see `vignette("howto-dm-theory")` and `vignette("howto-dm-db")`.

> 

Reviewer: Should we mention that the user is still responsible for setting transactions to ensure integrity of operations across multiple tables?

Author: Good idea. Added this note.

Note that `in_place = FALSE` is the default: you must opt in to actually change data on the database.

Each method has its own requirements in order to maintain database consistency.
These involve constraints on primary key values that uniquely identify rows.

| Method | Requirements |

> |--------|--------------|

Reviewer 2: Are these constraints documented in the manual pages too? Could this table (not in this PR, later) be generated automatically to prevent its getting out of date?

Author: Good thinking.
We could use rmd-fragments to generate both .Rd and vignette docs, so that both of them stay in sync.

Reviewer 2: Should we open an issue about thinking how to better keep vignettes and man pages in sync?

Author: Done! #1143

Note that `in_place = FALSE` is the default: you must opt in to actually change data on the database.

Each method has its own requirements in order to maintain database consistency.
These involve constraints on primary key values that uniquely identify rows.

| Method | Requirements |
|--------|--------------|

> | `dm_rows_insert()` | Primary keys must differ from existing records.|

Author: Okay, I mention both of them now.

| `dm_rows_update()` | Primary keys must match for all records to be updated.|
| `dm_rows_patch()` | Updates missing values in existing records. Primary keys must match for all records to be patched.|
| `dm_rows_upsert()` | Updates existing records and adds new records, based on the primary key.|
| `dm_rows_delete()` | Removes matching records based on the primary key. Primary keys must match for all records to be deleted.|

> | `dm_rows_truncate()` | Removes all records, only for tables in the changeset dm.|

Reviewer: This is about to disappear.

Author: So should I already remove it from the documentation? Or we should keep it until it is actually removed?

Reviewer: No need to keep it in the docs, #1031 is scheduled very soon.

Author: Okay, remove mentions of this function.

To ensure the integrity of all relations during the process, all methods automatically determine the correct processing order for the tables involved.
For operations that create records, parent tables (which hold primary keys) are processed before child tables (which hold foreign keys).

> For `dm_rows_delete()` and `dm_rows_truncate()`, child tables are processed before their parent tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For `dm_rows_delete()`, child tables are processed before their parent tables.
```

  dm_rows_insert(dm_insert_in)
``````

> This gives us a warning that changes will not persist (i.e., they are temporary).

Reviewer: Is this still true?

Author: Looks like it:

``` r
library(DBI)
library(dm)
library(tidyverse)

parent <- tibble(value = c("A", "B", "C"), pk = 1:3)
child <- tibble(value = c("a", "b", "c"), pk = 1:3, fk = c(1, 1, NA))
demo_dm <-
  dm(parent = parent, child = child) %>%
  dm_add_pk(parent, pk) %>%
  dm_add_pk(child, pk) %>%
  dm_add_fk(child, fk, parent)

sqlite_db <- dbConnect(RSQLite::SQLite())
demo_sql <- copy_dm_to(sqlite_db, demo_dm, temporary = FALSE)

new_parent <- tibble(value = "D", pk = 4)
new_child <- tibble(value = "d", pk = 4, fk = 4)

dm_insert_in <-
  dm(parent = new_parent, child = new_child) %>%
  copy_dm_to(sqlite_db, ., temporary = TRUE)

dm_insert_out <-
  demo_sql %>%
  dm_rows_insert(dm_insert_in)
#> Not persisting, use `in_place = FALSE` to turn off this message.

dbDisconnect(sqlite_db)
```

<sup>Created on 2022-06-19 by the [reprex package](https://reprex.tidyverse.org) (v2.0.1.9000)</sup>
